Greetings everyone.
Here in this section,
we're gonna go over, what is VoIP?
Why do we use VoIP?
How do we use VoIP?
>> So VoIP, V-O-I-P.
V-O-I-P stands for
Voice Over Internet Protocol, and
it's pronounced just as you see it, voyp.
At the very core, it's essentially
a phone service that works off
the digital network, for
instance, the Internet.
>> Even though VoIP tends to use the
Internet to communicate from a computer
to a computer or phone to phone,
you don't actually need the Internet.
This is because we just need Internet
protocols to allow for the communication.
Protocol is just a set of rules so
we can communicate with the audio
signals or the digital signals.
>> Say,
if I wanted to make a call to Randy,
all I would need to do is establish
how I was gonna send the message.
I would say,
I'm gonna send the message this way and
Randy's computer would say oh,
I'm gonna receive it this way.
As long as those rules are established,
we can make a VoIP call and
as long as they're connected on a network,
also.
You don't necessarily need
the Internet to make that call.
>> Just some way to connect the computers.
>> The benefits of using
Internet protocols,
in general, is that it supports corporate,
private, public.
It can be transmitted over cable or
wireless networks.
So it's used in many different mediums and
is very versatile in that sense.
>> Let's go ahead and
check out why we use it.
>> Usually,
in a traditional phone service,
let's say you're making
an international phone call,
you're usually charged on the minute.
If you're gonna call India or China,
every minute you talk to your relatives or
someone down there, every minute you talk,
you have to pay a certain number of cents.
When you're using VoIP,
that charge is cut down.
You're paying on a monthly rate.
So you can just make a call,
talk for hours on end,
and not have to worry about
those minutely charges.
>> This is usually very
appealing to big businesses.
Instead of being charged by the minute,
or mainly because say it's
night time in the certain country,
say the U.S., but at that time,
most people aren't working so instead your
phone calls for customer service will be
sent outside of the country,
say somewhere in Asia where it's morning.
>> Mm-hm.
>> That'll help the company dodge
any international fees, it just uses
the Internet, they just gonna pay their
monthly Internet bill and they're good.
>> These different applications
support call forwarding,
voice mailbox, call records etc,
and has many different features.
>> There are a ton of free ones too, such
as Skype and you've probably used Skype,
a lot of people use Skype.
Skype has that call-forwarding,
has that messaging.
You can have voice calls-
>> You can even have international calls
on Skype.
>> Call record, everything.
That ties into the hows.
>> On a traditional phone service,
you're making an analog audio signal.
Every time you're talking, analog audio
signals are getting sent to the tower and
that tower carries on that signal
to the next one and so on.
However, when you're using VoIP,
that analog audio signal gets
changed into digital data and
that digital data is then transmitted.
The benefit of using digital data over
analog audio signals is that digital data
can carry much more information
than traditional analog signals.
So you can do voice calls,
audio calls both at the same time.
It gives you much more
freedom to work with there.
>> In the following lesson, we'll check
out these flavors more in depth but
basically, the three main
things that use voice
communication would be the ATAs,
which are the analog telephone adapters.
That just converts your
traditional landline
network into using the VoIP networks.
Then there's IP phones, which are just
Internet phones and then finally,
the normal computer
interfaces such as Skype.
>> Right.
Here's a little diagram of
how VoIP basically works.
You can use your computer or your
telephone, it'll go through the Internet.
And then that Internet signal will be
received on a different computer or
telephone and you just talk like that.
>> What are some of the disadvantages and
advantages as compared to
the traditional telephone service?
>> We already went over the biggest
advantage of using VoIP,
it's the cost benefit.
You don't have to pay so
much money to do international calls or
calls that are long distance.
However, another very big advantage
of VoIP is that it's higher quality.
With a traditional phone signal, you might
not get the best clarity in voice or
video and that's because you don't
have that much bandwidth to work with.
However, using VoIP, since you're
sending the data digitally, and
because the Wi-Fi bandwidth is much
bigger than traditional phone bandwidth,
you can give more data
to the receiving end.
You can do voice, audio, and it comes
out much more clearly on the other side.
>> Right.
Some disadvantages.
Usually when there's a power outage,
you lose service because usually your
router goes out or something else,
unless your router is connected to
some kind of back-up power generator.
Normally, on regular telephone networks,
when you make an emergency call to like,
say, 911, they'll be able to pinpoint
your location using the cell towers.
>> Mm-hm.
>> But, with Internet,
with VoIP applications,
say an IP phone, it will be much harder
to pinpoint your location through your
Internet, it tends to be more difficult.
>> Right.
>> Finally, there's no directory service.
Normal telephone companies will provide
a phone book so you can look up somebody.
>> Right.
>> Find the number, be able to call them.
>> But as of right now,
there's no established directory service.
Hopefully, there might be one in the
future but as of right now, you can't just
look at a store that you wanna call and
find the VoIP number to call them with.
>> At least, that's not too bad
because we can just easily exchange
contact information and
add it to our free contact book.
>> Exactly.
>> With that,
that wraps up the why, the what,
the hows of VoIP, and
we'll see you next time.